interested in this nearly 1.8 million
britons have become online share traders
during the pandemic as social media
influences fuel a rise in investing
particularly among the young more than a
fifth of uk adults now traded shares
during the pandemic nearly half of them
doing more trading or starting trading
during covert gary stevenson is an
economist who focuses on inequality he
was a trader who retired from the city
as a multi-millionaire aged
following the financial crash of 2008
very good evening to you gary
good evening tom do you know this to me
gary this seems like it is happening
just speaking to friends and and friends
and friends
do you know that this is happening that
more and more people are now playing on
stocks and shares
yes i've seen that just like yourself
them i've seen that happening to my
friends um i came out and put an article
out at the beginning of kobe making some
predictions about what was going to
happen big increase in share prices big
increases in gold prices and i got
contacted by loads of my friends who
wanted to get involved and you know
i told them what i thought was going to
happen you know gold would go up stocks
will go up and then uh suddenly like
august last year loads were getting in
touch with me when gold price collapsed
and i've lost loads of money in loads of
these guys are running these online
trading platforms so i went and looked
at the numbers and there's been a
massive increase so ig index which is
the biggest spread vetting platform has
had a 60 increase in users there's been
five million users of etoro
360 increase in free trade two million
britain's investing i'd say investing in
cryptocurrency there's been an explosion
in the use yeah
uh gary i i'll be honest i've looked at
this too i've downloaded the apps i've
had a play around with with sort of
pretend money to start with because i'm
i'm you know
i'm nervous about it i don't i don't
know what i'm doing but you you look at
how the real economy is when things are
falling apart and wages are stagnant and
asset prices are exploding and you think
well that's where the action is that's
for a lot of people that's the only way
they're going to make lots of money if
they cut if they can't buy a house
yeah i totally understand it i totally
understand i mean that's why my friends
were contacting me they said look
we saw what happened in 2008 people's
wages stayed flat for 10 years and
london house prices doubled and they
increased the rest of the country as
well right and so we're living in a
country it seems the stock market's
double everything is and yet wages don't
double in that's right so i totally
understand why people want to get
involved and you know i'm from london
you know people in london they might
have friends who work in the city seeing
them taking home seven-figure bonuses
while here in colby a lot of people are
struggling just to just absolutely i
totally understand why people are doing
it but
it's dangerous
but it's it it's dangerous in the way
that
having a betting app on your phone or
going to a bookies is dangerous you know
if you're going to bet money you've got
to run the risk that you're going to
lose money as well
it is it is but that's a really good
comparison you've made it on because you
said it's like having a betting app and
that is basically exactly what it is the
way that most ordinary people use these
apps like ig index or like world trade
they use it like like a gambling app
basically and that's why if you look at
the statistics seventy percent of users
of index lose money eighty percent of
users of world trade but the problem is
often these apps these trading apps are
marketed as if they're
valuable investment tools
rather
we've seen today this morning max
whitlock has come in support of world
trade which i think is trade nation
which is a uh spread betting contract
with different apps which is basically a
gambling although most people use it and
um you know he's pitching it if you work
hard and try your best we can make money
look at the statistics most people lose
money now you know i'm sure he's a
gentleman he's much better on a pommel
horse than me it was
if it was clearly a gambling app he
probably wouldn't be supporting it but
because of the trading act it's got
legitimacy and you know i've been
talking to some gambling organizations
ganban and gay and what they've been
seeing is people who've worked hard to
beat really serious gambling addictions
have often been dragged back into these
trading apps because they don't see it
as gambling they're not marketed as
gambling but the way they affect most
people is very similar to gambling i
don't know gary i think you're pretty
good on a pommel horse mate i've seen
you i think you could make it
listen the other allure of the the
trading stuff is i think the online
uh whether it's reddit or some uh
influencers on twitter there's there's a
move that seems like it's going to break
the system whether it was the robin hood
stuff or um game stock all that kind of
you know that there's a there's an a bit
that it's not quite the same as betting
on the the football or the horses that's
up to fate you're not really sure who's
going to win but you give it a good go
this is more like the system can be bent
can be crashed can be hacked in order
that you win
yeah yeah yeah you know we came on
before
people love this idea that we can fight
back against the system you know i'm
always talking about my youtube you know
we've got a system that is set up where
a crisis like 2008 a crisis like covid
whatever happens it seems the rich get
richer you know we saw like 250
billionaires make 106 billion extra
profits in kovis yeah and yet all the
new people seem to always lose out right
so obviously people want to fight back
into system i totally understand that
but
i think
often that desire people have to push
for something fairer is is being
somewhat taken advised of because the
number speaks themselves right 70
percent of idea index used to lose money
80 of trade nation users lose money so
people being dragged into
some idea that they're fighting the
power fighting the system and the end
result is just a load of ordinary guys
losing their savings so do you know of
people gary that have been able to come
you know
like trading bros you know guys in there
on their laptops at home during a
pandemic who are who are able to to sort
of train themselves to get better at
this follow advice from people on reddit
or twitter or wherever they're getting
advice from youtube videos and and end
up making money you know getting good at
it yeah this is a great point you know
as you know my background is i was a
professional trader you know i was one
of the world's top traders one of the
world's biggest banks i was a very
successful trading broker
yeah well i'm retired now and i do some
stay some stay-at-home trading right but
the fact is you know i've studied for
five years economics i've worked for
five years in the city
i'm a professional at this right you
know
maxwell like i read i read what he said
about trade nation right now i don't
want to single him out because i'm sure
he's a nice guy but he came out and said
look hard work and perseverance will
lead you to success right and that's
true right you know but i've worked as a
trader you know i've been doing it for
10 years and i'm good at it but i
wouldn't sit down and do a bit of
googling and decide i could take on that
look at gymnastics right but
if you're going out there you're
competing with traders who do this 100
hours a week maybe for 10 20 years you
know and
people are being sold a dream like a
wolf of wall street style dream where
they they get rolling news tickers and
they get these red and green grasping up
and down and they've kind of been told
to dream you could be a top trader but
the fact is you know if you haven't got
years and years of experience
you're not a trader so you know i just
obviously look it's like gambling
and you'll find people that have made
money because they've just made the
right bet you know there's a big element
of random chance there but the numbers
don't lie at home the majority of people
are losing marks all right i'll tell you
work for gary i appreciate it thank you
gary stevenson economist focusing on
inequality trader retired
multi-millionaire age 27
knows his stacks and shares
housing could be so much more affordable
wages could be so much higher and we
could have so many more options in how
we live our lives
there is one other thing they can do
with that mass amount of income they can
buy your mom's house
[Music]